Welcome back everyone to this lecture on tools of the trade we're going to discuss just a few technical
tools that people use and the data science industry.
So these are things like actual programming languages general frameworks and then also higher level
software tools.
So let's start off the basics programming languages.
So typically when you're doing a data scientist interview you're going to have to do some sort of coding
in a programming language.
Now these can go all the way from lower level languages such as C or C++ and Java to higher level languages
such as Python or are now in the data science community.
Python and are definitely the most popular.
But again it really depends on what kind of role you're looking at.
A lot of times if you're looking more for a role in the machine learning aspects of things or the data
engineering aspect of things you have to deal with lower level languages and then as you get more to
the analysis side of the spectrum you end up dealing more with Python and R and a lot of times you'll
have to know a little bit of everything especially things like sequel which are just general languages
for queering So those are the programming languages.
Next we're going to have to know about frameworks and libraries.
And these are actually going to depend on what your main programming languages.
So if you're interviewing as a data scientist and the position asked for knowledge in Python you should
know the frameworks and libraries that are used in Python.
Now for instance machine learning frameworks for Python the most popular one is sikat learn.
So the interviewer is probably going to expect you to know that if you're working with something like
Sparke they're going to expect to know what Madlib the machine learning library for Sparc is.
A lot of times there's a lot of other libraries depending on what language you're using.
So again if you're using Python they're going to expect you to know things like Pancho's nut pie if
you're working with are on other machine learning packages that are really popular are such as G-G plot
too.
That's a visualization package that they'll probably expect you to know and things of that nature.
So you'll have to know not just the programming language but when you start diving deeper into whatever
language you prefer they'll expect you to know the most popular frameworks.
And if you've already dealt with these languages before you probably already are familiar with these
frameworks and other higher level up from that is software tools.
Now this really depends on the company and the position itself but sometimes beyond programming languages
they'll expect you to work with software tools.
And typically this is more in the analyst's position.
So if you're looking at things like a business intelligence analyst or just a business analyst in general
or even a data analyst they work a lot more with software tools than programming languages themselves.
So these are things like Tablo or H2O and some of these other services you may have heard of before.
Now keep in mind software tools come out all the time and a lot of times these companies are acquired
very quickly.
So this list will change basically year to year as far as what the current trends are in software tools
in the data science ecosystem now that we've gone over the three main levels of these tools of the trade.
The first being the lower level of programming languages then one level up as frameworks and one level
on top of that as general software tools.
We want to figure out a strategy for picking which tools that you should study and become an expert
in.
And I would highly recommend that you just pick one programming language at first and learn it very
well.
So for example you can just pick Python learn that very well learn the various frameworks for well such
as Panchos and non-pilots I could learn.
And then once you understand that then you can expand off to other programming languages.
Interviewers really like a expertise in one language and the ability to have those general skills in
a programming language that you can then relate to the programming languages such as are or sequel or
other programming languages because really at the end of the day it's just a syntax change.
Being a good programmer in one language usually means you're a good programmer in other languages as
you pick up the syntax.
So that's really what interviewers look for in a lot of times company projects are going to switch frameworks
or switch languages.
So it's really important they have that general skill set.
So again once you have that one language expertise then you can begin to expand to different languages
and begin to become that T-shaped candidate.
So you're also going to want to look up what specific tools are being used in your preferred companies
so that can help you pick that one language.
Now if I had to recommend one language to pick if you were just starting off I would recommend either
Python or R and currently Python seems to be the most popular and most trending as far as language is
used in the data science ecosystem.
But again maybe look up your preferred company jobless things and see what tools are being used.
Some companies tend to exclusively use just one programming language such as are.
So let's go ahead and take a look at what a example job posting would look like.
This is actually from a job posting on you to me for a data science position so we can see here what
qualifications are looking for.
There are things like the years of experience in some sort of analytical or data science space.
Then there's experiment with analyzing Abts.
And then if you look at that fourth bullet point they say skill that extracting them manipulating large
data sets using Eskew or sequel in a statistical language such as our or Python.
So you can see here they're only asking for two things.
One is that you have general knowledge of sequel or as well.
And that's going to be pretty much across the board for any sort of analyst position sequel.
And as you all are definitely still the main types of ways that you interface with some sort of data
warehouse.
So you're pretty much always going to have to know that.
But then once you actually get your data you're going to want to analyze it with face artistical language
and here you can see this company is flexible either are or Python because they know that if you're
good at are you'll be able to easily switch to Python and vice versa.
Then some sort of familiarity with advanced visualization tools.
And if you're familiar are python and worked with them they do science.
Hopefully you already understand some of the visualization frameworks such as Ju-Ju plot to for our
or that plot live for Python.
And then the rest of these bullet points are basically just more generalized things such as being able
to think strong mentality.
A teamwork mindset etc..
Hopefully that gives you an idea of what to look for in a job posting.
So if this was your dream company and dream job you would know that you would need to cover as well
and you would also need to become a really good skilled programmer in either or Python you don't necessarily
have to know both.
OK thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.